---
layout: post 
title : Support Vector Machine
tags  : [ML,AI,classification,SVM, supervised, Vapnik]
title-seprator: "|"
categories: Machine Learning
permalink: /:categories/:title.html
mathjax: true
author: Mrityunjay
img: /posts_imgs/SVM/teaser/svmPlot3.png
viz: SVM/index.html

---


<!-- <script>
document.getElementById("myFrame").src = '{{"/assets/viz/" | prepend: site.baseurl | append : page.viz}}'
</script> -->

## Um, what am i looking at?

This is a visualization of Support Vector Machine, which tries to fit the best possible decision Boundary from the given data points.

Just tap on the grid(Data Space) to add a new data points ( you can also drag the data points by click and drag), if you want to change the class of a new data point then simply click on the 'Current Class' switch.

Go ahead, play with the controls on the right and have fun!

### From Wiki:-
In machine learning, support-vector machines are supervised learning models with associated learning algorithms that analyze data used for classification and regression analysis. Given a set of training examples, each marked as belonging to one or the other of two categories, an SVM training algorithm builds a model that assigns new examples to one category or the other, making it a non-probabilistic binary linear classifier (although methods such as Platt scaling exist to use SVM in a probabilistic classification setting). An SVM model is a representation of the examples as points in space, mapped so that the examples of the separate categories are divided by a clear gap that is as wide as possible. New examples are then mapped into that same space and predicted to belong to a category based on the side of the gap on which they fall. 

## Hyperparameters:

C: Regularization term

Kernel Type: Type of Kernel, currently support 3:
- Linear:
  
$$
K(x,y) = x^Ty
$$

- Polynomial:
  
 $$
 K(x,y) = (x^Ty + c)^d
 $$

- RBF:

$$
K(x,y) = exp(-\frac{||x - y||^2}{2\sigma^2})
$$

We also have Hyperparamters to control the behavior of our Kernels:

- If we select Polynomial Kernel then we can choose the Degree of our polynomial upto 3.
- If we select RBF Kernel then we can select the width of our kernel a.k.a sigma( $$ \sigma $$). 


## Further Reading

[Wiki: Support Vector Machine](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Support-vector_machine)
[StatQuest: Support Vector Machine](https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=efR1C6CvhmE)